# Host-Microbe Ecology and Evolution

## Amphibian Museum Specimens
My current NSF fellowship supports research and training that utilizes biological museum collections. This project aims to answer significant historical questions vis-à-vis host-associated microbes in fluid-preserved amphibian specimens. Specifically, it is hypothesized that microbial gut communities will vary in diversity and function both within and between amphibian assemblages over spatiotemporal gradients. Such changes may also precede disease related declines of the associated hosts, such as chytridiomycosis in amphibians. These hypotheses are being tested by utilizing recently developed techniques for isolation and purification of degraded DNA and shotgun metagenomic sequencing for generating host-associated gut metagenome data. Sequence-based taxonomic and functional analysis is being used with a variety of bioinformatics and machine-learning software on high-performance computing resources. By utilizing museum specimens and their associated locality information, I also aim to explicate changes in host-associated microbiomes of amphibian assemblages in response to differential land-use and land-cover (LULC) in the Midwest and Northeast United States from the 1880s to present. Statistical mixed-effects models are currently being implemented for evaluating changes in host-associated microbial metagenomes and will include the integration of publicly available LULC datasets. The project will therefore further my own training in GIS for integration into microbial ecology research, and also promote the mentoring of students from underrepresented groups in using museum collections for answering questions pertaining to microbial ecology and evolution.

## Urban Rats
I am currently part of the collaborative Boston Urban Rat Study (BURS). This group aims to answer various questions realting to urban rats and human health in Boston, MA. The component of the study of which I am working is specifically interested in rat microbiome and virome associations with different health outcomes in humans and other animal species. Our understanding of interacting ‘omes’ among changing animal communities and their environments is limited and this study will help clarify these unknowns. We currently are characterizing the microbiome and the virome of urban rats to establish a baseline for the species and to understand how the microbiome and virome change temporally and geographically. Other questions of interest include: How different is the rat microbiome from the human microbiome? What viruses are rats carrying and are they zoonotic? How do the rat microbiome and virome change based on habitat type, season, and interaction with other animals, including humans?

## Freshwater Turtles
The freshwatter turtle microbiome project aims to ask ecological questions relating to the bacterial microbiome in the freshwater turtle Graptemys pseudogeographica along the Upper Missouri River in the United States. The changing environments of rivers create an interesting system for microbial ecology questions of study in these resident aquatic turtles. Questions being asked in this system include how do bacterial microbiomes change along river gradients? How do anthropogenic effectors such as agricultural chemicals and dams alter the host microbiomes? And how do host-associated bacterial microbiomes vary among conspecifics at different sites along the river (which may help clarify questions related to host-microbe determinism)?

# History and Philosophy of Biology

## Mass Extinctions
The amphibian-microbe and turtle-microbe work presented above is interesting from a macroevolutionary perspective in that many of these species are thought to be going extinct. These extinctions encompass what is commonly referred to as the sixth mass extinction. As variable microbial communities among amphibian and turtle species might be involved in these extinction events, various philosophical questions are raised about whether these extinctions are part of a greater mass extinction trend, or a more subtle process of species or even clade selection. This project aims to examine various philosophical issues in the ongoing extinction debates to include the issue of historical reification in delineating mass extinctions and related normative conservation claims.

## Contextualism in Microbiome Research
I also have ongoing interest in epistemic contextualism generally, and also how contextualist claims relate to scientific work in host-microbe biology. This project draws on historical trends in host-microbe biology in deciphering what scientists do at present and how this relates to the veracity of their epistemic claims. 
